CSCI 019 Final
	Today I will be writing about the impact of game hacks on the gaming world and how hacks work. I chose this subject because of the recommendation from my professor and my personal experience with gaming. I believe that hacking games can be both good and bad. Good because it can enhance gameplay experience by making it more fun, bad because if it’s used in the wrong game such as in multiplayer where it gives you an unfair advantage it can ruin other people’s experiences.
	Game hacking is the manipulation of files in a game to alter the gameplay experience, examples of this include aim bot (a program that positions your crosshair on enemies, so you don’t have to manually place it there [commonly used in first person shooters]), wall hacks (allows you to see enemy positions through walls [often just called walls]), teleportation (the ability to instantly move to another location usually more tactically advantageous), invisibility (making it so enemies cannot see you), and many others. Hacks change how the game runs or how much control you have over some things.
 In single player games there are almost no negative side effects from manipulating the game code other than crashing the game, some games even include cheats in the game. There are completely ethical hacks in games as many people enjoy the whimsical nature of some hacked files in games, if they are included by the developer they are not usually referred to as hacks but rather cheats. Cheats are usually implemented in single player games to do things such as turn bullets into paintballs, give you infinite items, give you all items, make you invulnerable, teleport you to specific locations, and so on. One of my favorite cheats to use in old shooters was big head mode, which does exactly what it says gives everyone giant heads. These are mostly accepted in the gaming community as just fun functions of the game as they usually just enhance your gameplay experience. 
  On the other hand, there are another variety of hacks normally just called hacks which normally use external software to alter game files or control inputs. Usually viewed in a negative light a lot of games greatly discourage the use of such hacks and some even outright ban anyone caught using them. Hacks are usually used in multiplayer games such as call of duty and other shooters to gain an unfair advantage on their enemies. Developers usually run a parallel program such as anti-cheat or vanguard to determine if someone is using a program to manipulate the game. If detected, they will usually ban them from playing the game anymore although there are other types of punishments that I have heard of and seen implemented. One example of these unusual punishments was implemented in call of duty warzone recently. The community called it “marshmallow bullets”. When a player is detected using aim bot their damage is canceled out and their shots do no damage. I found this very funny as when you found someone using aim bot instead of being frustrating and annoying it was funny and you didn’t want to kill them right away.
  There is one more category of hacks in video games which is my personal favorite, Mods. Mods are modifications made to the game code on a much larger scale that change or sometimes even add entire sections or functions to the game. Mods are almost always added to single player games and do silly things like change your mount into Thomas the tank engine or add fun new side quests into rpgs. One game that does this well was elder scrolls Skyrim, where the developers embraced the love of the community for the mods made for the game by fans and added an easy way to add mods into your game. There are thousands of mods for Skyrim alone and hundreds of people put many hours into making them. There are many games that support mods and if they don’t support them, they usually don’t punish their use. Some game developers do not want mods in their game though, so it is best to use caution before installing mods.
  To summarize in this paper, I gave a general explanation of what game hacks were. I then explained the different kinds of game hacks such as mods and cheats. I also briefly touched on the ethicality of hacking and explained that in some settings it is completely acceptable to use hacks. I hope you learned something while reading this paper!!
